every website like how much it costs to
go to private school what was your worst
experience in private school
do you prefer homeschool private school
or public how uncomfortable are your
uniforms what are you gonna miss most
about private school when you read for
college hey guys welcome back to my
channel my name is Riley if you're new
here if you're not hey what's up to me
again I asked you guys on my Instagram
to ask me any questions you had about
private school so today I'm going
through those and answering all of your
burning questions about private school
let's hop right into it do you think
normal high school is better because you
get to know how the real world actually
is honestly I don't think you have to
experience public high school to
understand how the real world works and
come into contact with different
opinions other than your own I think
that's just something that you know
especially with social media nowadays
and the news like you know what happens
in the world and I don't feel
disadvantaged because I've gone to a
school that sheltered isn't the right
word but like that has higher high
standards high morals as an institution
I know what's in the world I know what
goes on I know that I'm gonna have to
face those kind of things in other
situations but I think going to the
school that I did will help me because
I've been able to think about how I will
react to those situations instead of
having to be met with them at a young
age is everyone in your school the same
religion or go to the same church as you
and the answer to that is no they're all
different denominations and religions
they go to my church what they go to my
school
it is like based in Christian values but
we have Muslims that go to our school
all different kinds of people from
everywhere yeah it's great I love it
are you guys allowed to use your phones
okay so I had to get special permission
to use my computer and my phone to work
on in like study hall and stuff if I was
like done with my homework or if I
needed to upload a video like that
needed to be worked on before other
assignments I had to write up the
certain thing and get signatures from
like leaders of the school to be able to
use my stuff so technically the answer's
no
not supposed to use our phones but I got
special permission to use certain
devices for the purpose of work I got to
use it a little bit but most people know
and the little kids absolutely not you
get in so much trouble
what was your worst experience in
private school honestly my senior year
was not very good like on a school level
like I did good grade wise but just like
some relationships were strained of that
year with some teachers just some
situations that were not my favorite
just put it that way but my worst
experience honestly I don't think
anything can be eighth grade eighth
grade was the first year that I went to
this private school that I graduated
from and it was awful I literally hated
it I had like no friends and I did not
like my teacher and I did not like I
left all of my friends for my old school
and I really resented that and held that
against like my parents and like
everyone I just was mad
all the time like I said it's just funny
how things work out cuz I say like I
didn't have any friends but like Sarah
and Sean like all those people were like
in my class in eighth grade but we just
like blunt friends so I don't know it's
just funny how things turn out yeah that
was probably my worst year like I would
eat lunch in the bathroom it's like it's
like a movie it's like a teenage show
like Oh many lunch in the bathroom you
know like I straight-up did that like I
got my lunch and I went in the bathroom
like side against the wall I'm like my
lunch it's so sad
yeah that's a pretty bad year for me but
I turned around High School was a new
beginning I would say that's like my
worst experience but it wasn't the
school's fault it was just my own that
like eighth grade year some tape grade
suckiest years ever they're the worst so
I just think that was just a hard time
in my life changing schools and friends
and like well I kind of stuff didn't
really help me very much so that was
kind of like my worst experience overall
do you prefer homeschool private school
or public I honestly can't say whether
or not I prefer public school because I
only went to public school for one
in first grade and I don't really
remember what it's like so I think I
liked it but I don't really know I can't
speak to the private school versus
homeschooling and I definitely would say
I like private school better because I
get to interact with people I both done
my mom teaches us and like online
homeschooling
it was just hard and literally this
covin thing like it's it was like
homeschooling with like five kids in the
house with my mom is a teacher and oh my
gosh like I am never going like we were
all like we're never going back
homeschooling ever this is horrible
there's just like a lot of yelling and a
lot of taking forever to get things done
that's honestly how it would be with
homeschooling that's on like a family
being a homeschool together I think it
would be different if I did like online
school by myself when I did online
homeschooling I was in fifth grade so I
haven't really had the freedom Plus
homeschooling but honestly I just love
people and I love my friends and that's
something that during the summer time
and especially right now cuz I can't see
any of my friends right now that's been
really hard for me because I am a very
social person and I just yeah I just
miss my friends and I would have a hard
time going to school and not having any
friends around me so that's what I think
about those three different kinds of
school how uncomfortable are your
uniforms okay
the skirts honestly great I'm fine with
wearing skirts like cool the shirts are
the worst part if we could wear polos I
honestly would probably like the uniform
but we can't we have to wear the
button-up shirts and they're horrible
worst thing ever so those shirts are
very uncomfortable I have seen so many
comments talking about the color wear
uniforms and yes I am very grateful that
the color of our uniforms is what it is
because there are some very ugly prints
and the Lands End clear blue plaid is
good so I'm grateful that we have a nice
color scheme where your teachers strict
yeah let me know down below if you have
experienced this but like in
and I don't like this is all I'm pulling
from I'm pulling from what I've heard
from other people and from like movies
but at public schools teachers just
don't care they like give you stuff to
work out and like that's it
is that how public school is please tell
me down below in it's probably just like
it is anywhere else where teachers are
either good or they're bad and there are
some really great teachers and some
really crappy teachers all over the
place
so I think like the strictness of our
teachers kind of plays off of that our
teachers really care about us doing well
and doing our best on classes and so I
think that kind of ties in with the
strictness of things because they want
us to be doing our best and want us to
be acting our best I had 16 people in my
high school this year we're all pretty
good kids we don't really get in trouble
for stuff so I mean teachers are strict
sure but like they don't really have to
like enforce much do you receive sexual
education at your school if so how was
it we do not it's left up to the parents
which honestly I don't think is the best
just because I know of people who their
parents like don't say anything to them
and then it's like I feel so bad that
you had to figure out how things worked
a different way so I don't know if if
there was a perfect world parents would
sit down with their kids and have like
the talk with them but they don't and so
I don't know it's a hard balance it's
really the parents responsibility but if
the parents won't do it then that kind
of leaves the kid in a Crabby situation
so we don't do it at my school I didn't
do it at my previous school so yeah I
feel like if your parents explain
everything to you you don't really need
to what kind of private school did you
attend so there's a bunch of different
kinds of private school and like focuses
on each and mine in particular was a
classical private school so they focus
on cardinal virtues and preparing
students to help them become their best
selves and so that's kind of the focus
of classical education yeah I really
like the classical education is a really
good focus to have in a private school
do you have any advice for those who are
going to a private school I think
putting yourself out there is really
important
making good friends will lead you on a
good path so make sure to do that and
then also doing your best work because
your grades do matter and making sure
that you're doing well is really
important and I can tell you from
experience like there was point in my
life that I cared zero about grades I'm
like whatever I don't even I don't even
give him crap like I get a deed I don't
even care that was grade
can you tell that year was just like not
good but I really used this like new
beginning of high school as a point
where I was like I'm gonna change my
attitude towards things and I'm going to
try my best and that's really where I
started to learn the study skills just
at my school in general there are lots
of people who work really hard on their
academics and that's something that I
didn't know how to do that when I was
like first going into it so making
friends with people who knew what they
were doing and like worked really hard
at it and had that skill was really
great tool for me because I learned from
watching them and how they were
dedicated to their studies and so that's
something that I would definitely do but
I also recommend you learning to find a
balance between the level of work you're
doing and the amount of time you're
spending on it so say like I want this
level of excellence in the work I'm
doing but I'm gonna spend this much time
on it and I'm gonna do my best within
that time limit or something like that I
think can help you because I know there
are lots of people who struggle with
spending so much time on their
schoolwork where that's all they do with
their lives something that I really
found set me apart from lots of people
who struggled with that was that I was
kind of like I'm gonna do my best but
I'm gonna do my best to this point and
then I'm gonna say I've done enough and
then I'm just gonna get the grade that I
get after putting in that I'm out of
work and that amount of effort on it so
I don't know it's really hard finding a
balance I think also learning that what
the teacher expects from you very early
on can help because knowing the level of
work and the amount of time you need to
spend on things I'm just gonna plan with
my time based on what's hardest and
easiest for me so those are a few tips I
hope that
a little bit to kind of give you some
tips on going into private school what
are you gonna miss most about private
school when you leave for college I
think one of my main things that I'm
gonna miss the most is like the behind
the scenes I get of my school my parents
are partial founders of the private
school that I attend and my mom is a
teacher there we've helped set up for
stuff we're like they're longer than
other people I think just that relaxed
feel of being there is something that
I'll miss because when I go to college
I'm I think it's gonna be a different
kind of environment where I'm like not
like I don't know what I'm doing you
know I I gotta feel like my schools like
my turf you know and so I'm very
comfortable in situations there but
going to college will be a bit different
because I won't actually know what the
heck I'm doing and that'll be
interesting what was your best high
school experience Mann Mann high school
was all over the place but honestly one
thing just one memory that sticks out in
my mind we usually would do a winter
fundraiser and a spring fundraiser
because in case you didn't know private
schools aren't funded by tax dollars
like public schools are and so our
school would hold fundraisers where we'd
put on a performance and then charge
money for the tickets and then those
tickets would help fund our school so
we've kind of mixed it up what between
like a Christmas Carol it's a wonderful
life and then we did like a magical
dinner this last year and then in the
spring we've done Shakespeare plays and
Grimm's fairy tales and then we've also
done a musical and that musical was Mary
Poppins and I love singing I love that
whole sort of thing and I actually got
cast as Mary Poppins for that play and
it was just such a fun experience there
were dances like choreography it was
like seriously the best like performance
that my schools put on and so that just
whole thing was just such a great
experience so my brother was actually
Bert and then I was Mary Poppins Aiden
was like the dad and Sarah was the mom
yeah it was just so fun it's actually on
YouTube if you want to check it out you
can just look up like Mary Poppins play
if you want to go like dig in the depths
of mary poppins plays then you can try
to go find it but yeah it was just so
fun and just the choir pieces and
learning all the music I just
that's something I'm always gonna hold
very close to my heart and everyone that
saw it just loved it and said it was
like our best performance yet so that
was just one that I really loved that
like it's just so fun so that is
probably one of my favorite high school
memories would you like to go to a
public or charter school there are times
in my life where I definitely wanted to
go to public school and a charter school
actually when my parents along with the
other couples that started the school
that I go to actually wanted it to be a
charter school I'm I can't remember
exactly what the difference is I know it
just has like I think you do get tax
money for a charter school but still
have like the ability to control what
goes on in your school unlike a public
school where the government tells you
like what kind of curriculum you're
gonna have and then school you just have
like full control and no government
funding yeah I think just my school had
like 100 something kids and it was like
the majority is like little children
then my high school has like 16 people
there are no sports and there's no like
pep rallies and there's no like legit
prom or homecoming or anything like that
that definitely is kind of sad because
you're like I want to experience those
things my mom was homecoming queen
my dad was homecoming king at different
schools at different places but I was
just like I'm destined to be homecoming
queen and full of my put her together
princess right here anyway I don't know
it's just things like that where you're
like wow I would have liked to had the
opportunity to like experience those
things I've gone to prom and homecoming
both at like public schools so I know
what those are like and I've experienced
those but I don't know I it's just
different cuz you're like an outsider
going to those so I think it's all like
the fun activities that you miss out on
when you go to a small school with the
majority of like little children so yeah
there are definitely times where I wish
there were to a public school but
honestly now I'm like dude I'm going to
college now and I
can have all the sports I want and I can
participate in all the different things
I want to what would you do if you
spilled spaghetti sauce on your white
shirt at school during lunch so I feel
like I've done this before okay I think
at least one time anyone in a white
shirt has like gotten some kind of sauce
on it and if it's really bad then you go
to something called the uniform closet
and go find a random shirt in there and
put that one on instead of the one that
you're wearing before I've had to do
that multiple times I didn't have to do
that one time when he accidentally
rolled down a hill in the mud and got
his entire uniform like completely muddy
[Music]
five girls like helped to find it out
Finn like do too many change it was
really funny but yeah we have like a
uniform closet so there's like spare
clothes in there
little children get really dirty or wet
themselves or something there's like
clothes in there and then if we like
spill food on ourselves or whatever but
honestly like you could just put on a
jacket like it's not that big of a deal
and ties like ties can hide a lot like
if you got it like down here you put on
tie like it's covered up so are the
people there like the stereotypes of
private school kids oh I love this
question okay so know whenever I watch
like things were private school is
involved and see those kids I'm like
that is absolutely not it's like at all
we're all like good kids I don't know
else to say it like nobody's mean to
each other really like there's not time
drama like chill think of your own
school and then pick out like a couple
of your really good friends and then
pick out like a bunch of the kids that
you know that are like cool yeah you
don't know I'm like super well or you
haven't been hung out a ton but like you
know I mean they're cool and then like
you have like 16 people there and that's
what it's like just chill cool people
our friends have a good time everyone's
nice to each other
there's no bowling in the high school
there's no like drugs or smoking or
drinking like last year I was the oldest
kid in my school
I don't do any kind of hot stuff nobody
in my school does so we're a lot more
simple than a lot of people would think
is it worth paying for private school
okay I've been wanting to address this
question I get so many comments telling
me how private school is so expensive
and everything and I
want to clear some things up I've
already said this before but it's a K 4
through 12 so there's like different age
brackets of how much tuition is for
younger kid junior high and then high
school so I'm reading from the website
like how much it costs to go to a
private school specifically my private
school so the annual tuition rate for
students 1st through 8th grades is
$4,200 for the first student and 3600
for each additional student in grades
1st through 8th say someone has like
three kids going to the school then they
pay four thousand two hundred for the
first child and then three thousand six
hundred for the two other ones for the
year and then the rate for the upper
school ninth and higher so just high
school is four thousand nine hundred
dollars per year per student so that's
how much it cost and then the rate for
Montessori pre-k kindergarten is two
thousand six hundred child so that's
like four-year-olds through like six
year olds and then they're like tuition
payment plans available and then you can
get a like scholarship so you pay half
of the tuition rate and then the other
half is you get a scholarship for it but
they want you to at least pay some so
that there's like that accountability
factor honestly I do not think that's
unreasonable whatsoever
compared to other prices like I've heard
of private schools that are like eleven
thousand dollars for like kindergarten
you know so when people are telling me
like it's so expensive like you're so
rich you spent so much money on school
only like rich people can afford this
I'm like I don't know private school
you're talking about but like that's not
unreasonable to me if you're sending
your kid somewhere that they're gonna
get a really good education they're
gonna work hard they're gonna learn a
lot like I don't think that's an
unreasonable price like that's a
vacation for a family 5,000 dollars like
you on vacation or you can send your kid
to private school there's like you know
you have to make sacrifices like that
but that's not an unreasonable thing you
know if it's important to you
I hope my point came across here guys I
am NOT saying that every vacation that's
taken by families $5,000 I'm just trying
to say it's okay for people to make
sacrifices and
area.if private school is something
that's important for them and their
family and it doesn't seem unreasonable
to me that that would be the case I hope
that came across here alright guys so
that is the end of the video I really
hope I answered lots of your questions
gave you a little bit more insight into
what it's like to go to a private school
specifically mine because they're all
different can we understand that yes
like I'm not gonna know what other
private schools are like first is my own
I have so many comments on so many of my
videos saying like this is now a private
school was like and I'm like this is
what my private school is like I don't
know what your private schools like or
his private school or her private school
but this is what mine's like you know
they're all different just like public
schools thank you all for watching this
video I hope I helped answer any of the
questions you had thank you all for
asking them if you participated in this
if you want to be a part of my next
video that's interactive make sure to
follow me on instagram at Reilly real I
love you guys so much and I'll see you
in next week's video bye guys
[Music]